>> Brian Holt: So
there are, I looked it up.
Did I put how many there are?
We're gonna go over some of the more
important ones right here, but,
>> Brian Holt: There's some 300-odd tags,
I think there's 300 or 350-ish tags.
But you definitely, definitely, definitely
do not need to know all of them.
I don't know all of them.
I probably, I don't even know half.
I guarantee you, I don't even know half.
You probably use,
I'm gonna guess 50, at most.
There's probably 1 to
30 that you use a lot,
30 to 50 of them that you use sometimes,
and the rest that you use never.
[LAUGH] And there's a certain
amount of them that are deprecated,
is the word that we would use for that.
Which is they used to exist, and
they are no longer in use, and
you're discouraged from using them.
So there's a bunch of those as well.
I mean, HTML is how old?
30 years old or
something like that, maybe longer.
And when they were designing
how to use HTML, 30 years ago,
they did not know how we were going
to be using and abusing it today.
[LAUGH] So they could never have predicted
things that were gonna be good ideas and
things that were gonna be bad ideas.
That's why we're on HTML 5.1 right now,
which means we're on the fifth
major revision of it.
And the .1,
they added a couple more things as well.
So there's a bunch of stuff that
has changed over the years.
So, we'll get a bit more
into that later as well.
>> Brian Holt: So now we're gonna, we'll
talk about divs here in just a second.
But we're gonna explore a bunch of
different kinds of tags that you should
know about.
These are the, I would deem to
be some of the more useful ones.
So we talked about h1 through h6,
which are headers, or headings rather.
>> Brian Holt: So this,
for example, is an h1.
Or no, this is an h2,
I think right here, this Types of Tags.
>> Brian Holt: So that's gonna be
some sorta heading on the page,
something that you would have at the top,
right?
That's gonna be some sorta title,
some sort of important descriptor
that you want kinda to stand out.
That's why this one's bigger, it's bolder.
It's a heading, right?
You're scrolling down, what you're
doing if you come to this page and
you just wanna peruse it really quick.
You're gonna scroll down really quick, and
you're just gonna look at headings, right?
That's kind of what they're for.
>> Brian Holt: And
that's why you have h1 through h6.
On this particular page, this basic HTML,
that's the h1 because that's
the most important thing this entire
page is about, Basic HTML, okay?
And then everything underneath that,
these h2's are kinda subheadings in here.
So you can scroll down and just look at
Types of Tabs, and those sorts of things.
And then if this had headings underneath
it, then you would have an h3, so
on and so forth.
>> Brian Holt: And
just to kinda highlight,
a bunch of these are kinda
they're pretty squishy subjects,
that there's not necessarily
the right way to do it.
I kind of liken it to formatting
a Microsoft Word document.
There's multiple ways to do this.
It's as much artistic
license as it is engineering.
Which you're gonna find a lot throughout
this course, is lot of this is just kinda
doing your best,
taking the knowledge that you have and
just applying it the best
way that you know how.
That make sense?
Any questions?
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: p tags, so
p stands for paragraph.
And you'll put paragraphs
of text inside of a p tag.
So up here, this right here,
that little bit, that is a p tag, right?
It's just a paragraph.
And so if you have multiple
paragraphs next to each other,
this is multiple p tags right here.
>> Brian Holt: And that's what it is.
It's just whatever you would
put inside of a paragraph.
So you're gonna use p tags quite a bit.
So only text goes inside of p tags.
So for example,
you can't have a div inside of a p tag.
Or you can't have an h1 inside of a p tag.
Only text ends up going in there.
And some sorta, spans can go in there,
things that describe text.
Which we'll get to spans in just a second.
But there's a bunch of things
that cannot go inside of a p tag.
And what the browser will actually do if
you try to put something inside of there,
it will actually kick it out.
So it looks really weird.
So don't put weird things in there.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Anchor tags,
so that's an a.
These are links, right,
and it stands for anchor.
I can't remember why it stands for anchor.
I don't know why that's the appropriate
term for it, that's just what you call it.
[LAUGH] So this link right here,
where you put your pointer over and
it turns to a cursor,
so you can click on it,
that is an anchor tag, that is a link.
So if you look here, so you have the a,
href equals frontendmasters.com, right?
So this href is where it
actually ends up going,
that needs another
quotation mark right there.
Whatever, that's fine.
Then this is the text inside of it.
So you can see here,
this link actually doesn't go anywhere.
But that's what it looks like.
So you use a tags to create links, and
you would link it to some other URL.
>> Brian Holt: URL stands for
a Uniform Resource Location, I think.
It's whatever the address is,
the Web address.
So you can see up here, this is the Web
address for this particular page.
That's what would go inside
of here instead of the href.
You would put it in there, and then
the link would take you to that place.
Does that makes sense?
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
I'm seeing mostly head nods, so
I feel pretty good about that.
>> Brian Holt: That href, this part
right here, is called an attribute.
And that is in the next lesson,
we will talk a lot more about attributes.
But basically, you can give additional
information to these tags via attributes.
And again, we will go over that.
We actually have a whole section on it.
So if that doesn't make sense right now,
it's coming.
>> Brian Holt: Div, okay, so
this is one we had the question about.
It is short for division.
And I like to think of
divs as cardboard boxes.
That it's not actually, the cardboard
box is never the important part, right?
It's actually what's inside
of the cardboard box.
So it's just like a box
that you stick stuff in,
you stick other,
more important things inside of.
A div, in and of itself, has no what
we would call semantic meaning.
It doesn't necessarily mean anything
because it's inside of a div.
It's just kind of a no-name
container that you put stuff into.
Does that makes sense?
It's just,
you're gonna use divs everywhere.
Because there's a lot of times where
you can't really describe anything in
particular.
>> Brian Holt: You don't need a tag
that has any sorta semantic meaning, so
yeah, it's a generic tag for
grouping things together.
Divs can be really useful with CSS.
And that's in particular where
you're gonna use them a bunch,
just cuz they're really useful for
styling with CSS.
So that's why you'll see those a lot.
>> Brian Holt: So
if you had a blog post kind of thing,
you'll kind of group the entire blog
post container into one div, usually.
So yeah, spans.
If a div is a cardboard box,
a span is like a Ziploc bag.
It's like a smaller div.
And you'll have spans
inside of paragraphs.
So if I wanted to highlight this block of
text right there, something like that,
I would put that inside of a span right?
So it's actually just a small snippet
of whatever you're dealing with.
You can have spans really
inside of anything.
You can have them inside of h1's.
You can have them inside of paragraphs,
inside of divs.
They fit kinda anywhere.
And it's just for this small block of
something, I'm gonna put a span around it.
I don't actually end up
using them a terrible lot,
just not usually that I need
to do something like that.
But if I needed to,
that's how I would do it.
Okay, so ols and uls.
So ol stands for ordered list,
and ul stands for unordered list.
So what you see here, where I had this
kinda list of tags that I'm talking about,
this is an unordered list.
So it's an unordered list,
because I could swap a and p, and
it doesn't really make any difference.
It doesn't change the meaning of the list.
It's an unordered list.
It's just a list of stuff, and
it doesn't really matter what
order it comes in, right?
So that's why this is an unordered list.
If something was an ordered list,
it would be, if I change the order of it,
it would change the meaning of it.
So for an example,
I have here the list of the ten most
populous cities in the world, right?
I can't switch number one and number two,
or else that list is now incorrect, right?
So that's when you would use an ol,
an ordered list.
So and instead of here, of having bullets,
it would have numbers like one, two,
three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten, so.
ol is ordered list,
ul is unordered list, and
then all of the individual
elements inside of it.
So the span one,
the ol one, the button one,
these are li's,
they're list elements, right?
So it's one individual entry inside
of the ol or inside of the ul.
So you can see here, I have an example.
>> Brian Holt: This is a ul, so
it would be an unordered list.
The ul ends here.
And I have one li here, another li here,
another li here, right?
So you'll have an opening ul or ol,
and then you'll have a bunch of li's.
And then you're gonna close your ul or
ol, just like that.
Any questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: It's useful for
making lists of things.
Buttons.
>> Brian Holt: A button is a button.
It's very self descriptive
in this particular case,
kinda hard to forget that one.
Buttons, in and of themselves,
do not do anything out of the box, right?
You don't put a button on the page and
it just suddenly does something.
So usually this is for some,
it's a hook for JavaScript, right?
It puts a button on the page, and
people know how to click buttons.
It's one of those things that you look at,
and you instantly know what to do with it.
And then you'll use JavaScript to respond
to a user clicking a button, right?
So you'll put a button on a page, and
then later you'll attach JavaScript to it,
to make it do something when clicked.
That make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Do you add anything for
accessibility within the button tag?
>> Brian Holt: No, you don't actually
have to, which is really nice.
That's another good reason
to use a button tag,
is that the screen readers
already know to look for buttons.
Cuz they know that
they're really important,
and that that's how you
interact with the site.
And I'm happy you bring that up.
Because you can actually, there's
no reason you have to use a button.
You can put a div there, and
you can make it work the same way.
But a screen reader would not find a div,
because a screen reader's not looking for
divs.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So
that's another good reason to use buttons,
because screen readers already
know what to do with them.
Good question.
>> Brian Holt: Other questions?
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
let's just go up here in just a second, so
you can see what a button looks like.
>> Brian Holt: <button>Click me.
So if you don't do anything,
the button just looks like this, right?
It looks very clickable.
It's something like, when you click on it,
it depresses a little bit, right?
So out of the box,
it already looks like a button.
It looks like something you can click.
>> Brian Holt: Later, we'll be able
to see how to style it different,
make it look different,
make it look nicer and things like that.
But also you kinda wanna
keep this aesthetic mostly,
because that's what people expect
when they're looking for buttons.
And you wanna make your site
as intuitive as possible.